let's continue our journey into the
glorious world of Java syntax so today
we're gonna talk about exceptions and
we've already seen these before so the
basic idea is that when something goes
wrong then our programs running we want
to break the usual flow of control that
is rather than business as usual just
keep running the program we want to do
something else when things break so
we've seen these before you've seen
exceptions as you've written your
programs like nullpointerexception
and so I'll give a little example of how
an exception can pop up in our array map
so I do make an a new make a new array
map from string to integer we associate
the value 5
with the string hello and then we try
and print out the value associated with
gulp so when we run this thing we get
index out of bounds exception minus 1 so
why did that happen well I'm not gonna
go through in a lot of detail but
basically with the Ray Matt if the key
doesn't exist then minus 1 is the index
we try and retrieve from and things
break so this is what's known as an
implicit exception nobody called for it
just Java realizes something's wrong and
the exception gets thrown now we can
actually do an explicit exception if we
want to be more descriptive because from
the perspective of the person using this
array map this isn't a particularly
useful message they might not even know
that there's an array under the hood
they don't know how to interpret this
minus 1 so we can maybe make things a
little more useful what I'm gonna do
here is say if index equals minus 1 then
I will use the throw keyword it's a new
keyword and we'll say throw a new
illegal argument exception and we can
provide a message the key provided I'll
say key was not in array map ok so this
is a cue to the programmer that's
something that they used the array map
wrong and so now if we run a rim
exception demo again we get the key
provided you'll was not in array map we
can make this look nicer as if we wanted
but good enough for now so we'll notice
then in addition to the message we also
have illegal argument exception so it's
a different type of exception and we'll
pick apart what the types are all about
in a moment
ok but I hope the idea here is make some
sense which is that when running code
it's nice to provide the most specific
exception possible so being explicit
rather than
is often a good idea so these are
explicit exceptions and the basic rule
for them is we use this new throw
keyword so let's think more broadly
about exceptions and then we'll go into
a few nitpicky details